## *_ESSAY_*

* Programming is an art that requires creativity, patience, lateral thinking and accuracy as foundations to be successful. I am a medical graduate from India. My husband and brother are software engineers and I am always fascinated on how innovative their work is. I worked as a research intern in a Transplant center in Seattle, where, I realized the importance of programming in medical research. The way knowledge of programming helped in analyzing the clinical and laboratory data in clinical and basic science research and its interpretation helped us to decide the future direction of the research. I was fascinated towards the role of data scientists in research and wanted to pursue a course in programming. I took an online course in Coursera on fundamentals of programming that taught me the fundamentals of Python programming. This course made me realize how fun programming can be. Later I leant basics of R programming through online resources. I decided to give GRE and TOEFEL to be able to apply to masters in data-science or similar programs and currently preparing for them.

* If accepted into the program, In 5 years, I would love to see myself as a Big-Data scientist in cancer research institution. I believe that by combining my knowledge in medicine and programming I could be of help in studies of finding better cure and rehabilitation methods for cancer patients.

* I appreciate the mission of Ada Developers Academy in providing women and people with no programming background a platform to pursue their interest in software and unleash their programming skills. I, myself being a woman with no software knowledge struggling to find a job and unable to think of masters program due to financial constraints, appreciate the effort of the academy. I would contribute to Ada’s vision by increasing the awareness about the importance of having diversity and inclusivity in the software industry in my work and social communities. I plan to donate to the Ada academy and attend volunteer orientation classes. I am a good listener and observer and this combined with my medical background, I would love to volunteer as an Adie mentor whenever possible.

* One of my mistakes is not taking advantage of online resources. While in India, during my graduation and preparation for competitive exams like USMLE for residency, I had minimal knowledge of online courses and forums that help in preparation and answering questions. I used to spend a lot of time researching books to get answers for my doubts. This was very time consuming and it was very difficult finding answers to my questions. While preparing for USMLE step 2, I have learnt about the online forums and courses from my husband and friends, which helped me in preparing and finding answers to my questions in more effective way. This helped me in achieving a more competitive score in USMLE step 2 than step 1.  In future, whether medicine or programming, instead of trying to solve things on my own researching books I would use the community knowledge in online resources like ‘stack overflow’ and other forums to learn and get answers when stuck with a problem.
